Formatting the CPU arch (#602)
kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki: docs/source/keywords.rst

CPU architectures
-----------------

Kokkos does not automatically add compiler flags to optimize for a specific CPU architecture.

> When compiling on the machine that the code also runs on, the easiest way to get the CPU code optimized is using ``Kokkos_ARCH_NATIVE=ON`` when configuring.

Reviewer: I think we should consider placing that single option in a table to make it stand out.  I think it will be overlooked otherwise.

Author: done in https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/602/commits/9b757ae533b23dee75600b4ba1a1d9baa3f8f658

In case of compiling for another machine, the CPU architecture can be manually specified. For the available architectures see the following list.

.. flat-table:: CPU architectures
    :header-rows: 1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths: 20 20 40 20

    * - Cmake keyword
      - Architecture/Instruction set
      - Examples
      - Vendor

>     * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ZEN3``

Reviewer: Is there something that can emphasize an horizontal line, or may be just double line to pronounce a bit more the separation between vendors?

Author: introduced in https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/602/commits/a002969daff65f39fdaeebf651d08e0dd88e332e

      - Zen 3/amd64
      - Epyc 7713 @ ORNL Frontier
      - :rspan:`3`
        AMD

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ZEN2``
      - Zen 2/amd64
      - Epyc 7742 @ NOAA

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ZEN``
      - Zen/amd64
      - Epyc @ ANL Selene

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_AMDAVX``
      - Bullozer/amd64
      - 

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_A64FX``
      - ARMv8.2/A64
      - A64FX @ Fugaku
      - :rspan:`4`
        ARM

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV8_THUNDERX2``
      - ARMv8/A64
      - ThunderX2 @ SNL Astra
        ThunderX2 @ CEA BullSequana

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV81``
      - ARMv8.1/A64,A32
      -

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV8_THUNDERX``
      - ARMv8/A64
      -

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV80``
      - ARMv8.0/A64,A32
      -

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_POWER8``
      - Power8/Power ISA
      - 
      - :rspan:`1`

>         IBM

Reviewer: same comment about the ordering of archs

Author: done in https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/602/commits/0f85d8cc6bad38d0749d2ac3b2cef24ff2773c5d

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_POWER9``
      - Power9/Power ISA
      - POWER9 @ ORNL Summit
        POWER9 @ LLNL Sierra  

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_SNB``
      - Sandy Bridge/x86-64
      - 
      - :rspan:`6`

>         Intel

Reviewer: Could we do reverse chronological order for Intel arch as well, more recent ones on top.

Author: yep, I forgot. done in https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/602/commits/0f85d8cc6bad38d0749d2ac3b2cef24ff2773c5d

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_KNC``
      - knc/x86-64
      - 

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_KNL``
      - knl/x86-64
      - 31S1P @ Tianhe-2

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_HSW``
      - Haswell/x86-64
      - 2680v3 @ NASA Pleiades 

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_BDW``

>       - Braodwell/x86-64

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Broadwell/x86-64
```

Author: fixed in drive-by mode

CPU architectures
-----------------

Kokkos does not automatically add or need compiler flags to optimize for a specific CPU architecture.

> Nevertheless, targeting a specific architecture allows the compiler to use simd instructions on the CPU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, targeting a specific architecture allows the compiler to use SIMD instructions on the CPU.
```

When compiling on the machine that the code also runs on, the easiest way to get the CPU code optimized is using the native option.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 25 75
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * -
      - Description/info

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_NATIVE``
      - Target the architecture of the compiling CPU (``-march=native``)

> In case of compiling for another machine, or if you want to be specific, the CPU architecture can be passed to kokkos manually. For the available architectures see the following list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If cross-compiling, or if you want to be specific, the CPU architecture can be passed to Kokkos manually. For the available architectures see the following list.
```

.. list-table:: AMD CPU architectures
    :widths: 30 30 30
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

>     * - Cmake keyword

Reviewer 2: CMake

      - Architecture/Instruction set
      - Examples

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ZEN3``
      - Zen 3/amd64
      - Epyc 7713 @ ORNL Frontier

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ZEN2``
      - Zen 2/amd64
      - Epyc 7742 @ NOAA

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ZEN``
      - Zen/amd64
      - Epyc @ ANL Selene

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_AMDAVX``
      - Bullozer/amd64
      - 

.. list-table:: ARM CPU architectures
    :widths: 30 30 30
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

>     * - Cmake keyword

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * - CMake keyword
```

      - Architecture/Instruction set
      - Examples

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_A64FX``
      - ARMv8.2/A64
      - A64FX @ Fugaku

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV8_THUNDERX2``
      - ARMv8/A64
      - ThunderX2 @ SNL Astra
        ThunderX2 @ CEA BullSequana

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV81``
      - ARMv8.1/A64,A32
      -

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV8_THUNDERX``
      - ARMv8/A64
      -

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_ARMV80``
      - ARMv8.0/A64,A32
      -

.. list-table:: IBM CPU architectures
    :widths: 30 30 30
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

>     * - Cmake keyword

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * - CMake keyword
```

      - Architecture/Instruction set
      - Examples

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_POWER9``
      - Power9/Power ISA
      - POWER9 @ ORNL Summit
        POWER9 @ LLNL Sierra  

    * - ``Kokkos_ARCH_POWER8``
      - Power8/Power ISA
      - 

.. list-table:: Intel CPU architectures
    :widths: 30 30 30
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

>     * - Cmake keyword

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * - CMake keyword
```
